README.md, before:

# Data Analyst
[CV](https://bit.ly/StevenGilandasCV_2024)

Project Navigation: [Fitbit](#fitbit) // [Wind Farm](#windfarm) // [Power BI](#globalFood)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Profile
I am a Data Analyst with an interest in Biostatistics. Fulfilling work for me is approaching a problem in a creative way and building solutions that are technically robust. I treat my technical output as a teaching opportunity - a way to engage with people and build knowledge. I’m particularly interested in using population health data to solve systemic problems in the way healthcare is delivered to communities.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Technical Skills
**Coding:** Python, SQL, R  
**Data handling/ Vis:** Excel, Power BI, Tableau  
**Adobe:** Photoshop, Illustrator, AfterEffects  
**3D:** Maya, 3ds Max, Cinema 4D

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Personal Skills
**Teaching/ Curriculum Writing:** University lecturer 4 years,  7 years total teaching experience

**Presentation design:** Creating compelling visual presentations - skilled at organising information in a digestible and compelling way to convey complex concepts to diverse audiences.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Projects
_To explore all projects please download repository ZIP/TAR_


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<a name="fitbit"></a>
### Fitbit Data Study |  General Assembly (Jan 2024)

Developed a predictive model analysing Fitbit data over one month to correlate activity logging frequency with exercise efficiency and health outcomes, revealing key insights into daily calorie burn. Utilized Python, R, and Tableau for comprehensive data analysis and visualization.

[Fitbit Data Study Tech Report](https://bit.ly/fitbitDataStudy_techReport_sg)

[Fitbit Data Study Presentation Deck](https://bit.ly/fitbitDataStudy_presentation)

[Fitbit Data Study Tableau Graphics (download .twbx)](https://bit.ly/fitbit_tableauGraphics)

![Fitbit logo](/assets/img/fitbit_logo_sm.jpg)
![Fitbit calories burned by Activity Minutes](/assets/img/fitbit_caloriesBurned_byActivityMinutes.png)
![Fitbit days full/partial/not logged by participant ID](/assets/img/fitbit_fullDaysLoggedbyId.png)
![Exercise lab features correlation matrix](/assets/img/fitbit_corrMatrix_ExerciseLab.png)


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<a name="windfarm"></a>
### Wind Farm Data Analysis |  General Assembly (Jan 2024)

Analysed geographical distribution and efficiency of US wind farms, identifying operators and parent companies to guide investment decisions. Contributed to a group project that assessed turbine power generation, maintenance costs, and market trends, supporting investment strategies in the wind energy sector. Built using Python and Tableau.

[Wind Farm Study Presentation](https://bit.ly/windFarm_finalPresDeck)

[Wind Farm Study Tableau Graphics(download .twbx)](https://bit.ly/windFarm_tableau)

![Gust Gurus logo](/assets/img/gust_gurus_logo_sm.png)
![Turbine efficiency by parent company](/assets/img/gust_gurus_efficiency_parentCompany.jpg)
![Number of turbines per state by company](/assets/img/gust_gurus_turbines_byCompany_byState.jpg)
![Number of turbines by state](/assets/img/gust_gurus_TurbinesByState.jpg)


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<a name="globalFood"></a>
### Global Food Distribution (Power BI dashboard) | General Assembly (Nov 2023)
Analysis of sales data for global food distribution company with presence in US, Europe and Japan - completed as a lab exercise with General Assembly.  Used Power BI to derive insights to client's products sales and marketing in these countries.  Identified: top selling products, trends in sales for these products, customers generating highest sales.  Comparison was made of sales in US vs Europe.  Recommendations made to maximise portfolio profitability to US and Europe, and recommendations made for exploring untapped markets in Europe.

**Dashboard comprises:** 


_1. High-level metrics:_ Sales by product group, top 5 sales by customer, quarterly sales by region, monthly sales YOY (filtered by: year/qtr/month, region)

_2. Product details:_ monthly sales YOY, sales by product group with gross margin %, tree map: product group by total sales (filtered by: region)

_3. Customer details:_ Scatterplot: qty of product sold vs sales (labelled by customer name), table: customer/ product group/ product type, sales/ qty/ margin/ avg sales per invoice (filtered by: year/qtr/month, manager)

_4. Customer location:_ Map: cities, bubble size = sales amount.  (filtered by: product group, region, year)

[Global Food Distribution - Report](https://bit.ly/powerBI_globalFood_report)

[Global Food Distribution - Dashboard (download .pbix)](https://bit.ly/powerBI_globalFood_dashboard)

![PowerBI 1 - HighLevel](/assets/img/powerBI_1_highLevel.png)
![PowerBI 2 - Products](/assets/img/powerBI_2_products.png)
![PowerBI 4 - Location](/assets/img/powerBI_4_location.png)


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Awards
**UNE Vice Chancellor's Scholar Award (_Jun 2023_):**
Graduating with GPA 6.7 or higher; honor roll.

**UNE Physiology Prize -3rd Year (_Jan 2022_):**
Highest aggregate grade in Year 3 physiology units: cardiorespiratory physiology, neurobiology, immunology, haematology, metabolism and nutrition.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Education
**Bachelor of Biomedical Science** | University of New England (_Jun 2023_) | GPA 6.96


**Master of Design Science (Digital Media)** | University of Sydney (_Nov 2005_)


**Bachelor of Arts** | University of Sydney (_2002_)


**Cert IV Training & Assessment** | Southern Cross Training (_2017_)



------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Professional Experience
**Data Analyst Student | Biostatistics @ General Assembly (_Nov 2023 - Feb 2024_)**
- Focused on advanced Excel, SQL, Power BI, Tableau, Python
- Full time intensive program: 600+ hours comprising coding, statistical analysis, online collaboration, applying a problem solving workflow to data analytiics.  Produced group and individual capstone projects using Python, Tableau, R

**Designer @ Bell Training Solutions (_2015-2023_)**
- Designed and developed graphics for training packages and client presentations
- Adobe photoshop, PowerPoint

**Teacher/ Curriculum Writer @ Academy of Interactive Technology (_2009-2010_)**
- Formerly AIT - Academy of Information Technology
- Curriculum writing: new Intro to 3D course in 3ds Max, which was a component of AIT’s successful application for higher education status.
- Course delivery: on-site teaching and marking.

**Lecturer, 3D Animation @ University of Technology, Sydney (_2009-2010_)**
- Workshop and tutorial preparation and teaching (Maya and Photoshop), marking, maintaining online materials, exhibition/ screening of student work.
- Update of syllabus and course content for the Master of Animation program.

**3D Environment Artist @ Team Bondi (_2008-2009_)**
- 3D environment artist for LA Noire.
- Terrain, architecture, props.  Bug fixing, navmesh and collision.
- Maya: 3D modelling and texture artist.

**Lecturer 3D, Compositing Game Design @ University of Sydney (_2008-2009_)**
- Lecture and tutorial development, marking, maintaining online and on-site resources.
- Maya, Unreal Engine, 2D compositing. 

**Lecturer 3D Animation @ University of Sydney (_2006-2009_)**
- Teaching 3D modeling and animation in Maya

Commit message:

edit splash page and add tableau images

README.md, after:

# Data Analyst
::[Download Resume](https://bit.ly/StevenGilandasCV_2024)

::Project Navigation:: Python: ([Fitbit](#fitbit) // [Wind Farm](#windfarm)) // [Power BI](#globalFood) // [Tableau](#tableau)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Profile
I am a Data Analyst with an interest in Biostatistics. Fulfilling work for me is approaching a problem in a creative way and building solutions that are technically robust. I treat my technical output as a teaching opportunity - a way to engage with people and build knowledge. I’m particularly interested in using population health data to solve systemic problems in the way healthcare is delivered to communities.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Technical Skills
**Coding:** Python, SQL, R  
**Data handling/ Vis:** Excel, Power BI, Tableau  
**Adobe:** Photoshop, Illustrator, AfterEffects  
**3D:** Maya, 3ds Max, Cinema 4D

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Personal Skills
**Teaching/ Curriculum Writing:** University lecturer 4 years,  7 years total teaching experience

**Presentation design:** Creating compelling visual presentations - skilled at organising information in a digestible and compelling way to convey complex concepts to diverse audiences.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Projects
_To explore all projects please download repository ZIP/TAR_


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<a name="fitbit"></a>
### Fitbit Data Study |  General Assembly (Jan 2024)

Developed a predictive model analysing Fitbit data over one month to correlate activity logging frequency with exercise efficiency and health outcomes, revealing key insights into daily calorie burn. Utilized Python, R, and Tableau for comprehensive data analysis and visualization.

[Fitbit Data Study Tech Report](https://bit.ly/fitbitDataStudy_techReport_sg)

[Fitbit Data Study Presentation Deck](https://bit.ly/fitbitDataStudy_presentation)

[Fitbit Data Study Tableau Graphics (download .twbx)](https://bit.ly/fitbit_tableauGraphics)

![Fitbit logo](/assets/img/fitbit_logo_sm.jpg)
![Fitbit calories burned by Activity Minutes](/assets/img/fitbit_caloriesBurned_byActivityMinutes.png)
![Fitbit days full/partial/not logged by participant ID](/assets/img/fitbit_fullDaysLoggedbyId.png)
![Exercise lab features correlation matrix](/assets/img/fitbit_corrMatrix_ExerciseLab.png)


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<a name="windfarm"></a>
### Wind Farm Data Analysis |  General Assembly (Jan 2024)

Analysed geographical distribution and efficiency of US wind farms, identifying operators and parent companies to guide investment decisions. Contributed to a group project that assessed turbine power generation, maintenance costs, and market trends, supporting investment strategies in the wind energy sector. Built using Python and Tableau.

[Wind Farm Study Presentation](https://bit.ly/windFarm_finalPresDeck)

[Wind Farm Study Tableau Graphics(download .twbx)](https://bit.ly/windFarm_tableau)

![Gust Gurus logo](/assets/img/gust_gurus_logo_sm.png)
![Turbine efficiency by parent company](/assets/img/gust_gurus_efficiency_parentCompany.jpg)
![Number of turbines per state by company](/assets/img/gust_gurus_turbines_byCompany_byState.jpg)
![Number of turbines by state](/assets/img/gust_gurus_TurbinesByState.jpg)


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<a name="globalFood"></a>
### Global Food Distribution (Power BI dashboard) | General Assembly (Nov 2023)
Analysis of sales data for global food distribution company with presence in US, Europe and Japan - completed as a lab exercise with General Assembly.  Used Power BI to derive insights to client's products sales and marketing in these countries.  Identified: top selling products, trends in sales for these products, customers generating highest sales.  Comparison was made of sales in US vs Europe.  Recommendations made to maximise portfolio profitability to US and Europe, and recommendations made for exploring untapped markets in Europe.

**Dashboard comprises:** 


_1. High-level metrics:_ Sales by product group, top 5 sales by customer, quarterly sales by region, monthly sales YOY (filtered by: year/qtr/month, region)

_2. Product details:_ monthly sales YOY, sales by product group with gross margin %, tree map: product group by total sales (filtered by: region)

_3. Customer details:_ Scatterplot: qty of product sold vs sales (labelled by customer name), table: customer/ product group/ product type, sales/ qty/ margin/ avg sales per invoice (filtered by: year/qtr/month, manager)

_4. Customer location:_ Map: cities, bubble size = sales amount.  (filtered by: product group, region, year)

[Global Food Distribution - Report](https://bit.ly/powerBI_globalFood_report)

[Global Food Distribution - Dashboard (download .pbix)](https://bit.ly/powerBI_globalFood_dashboard)

![PowerBI 1 - HighLevel](/assets/img/powerBI_1_highLevel.png)
![PowerBI 2 - Products](/assets/img/powerBI_2_products.png)
![PowerBI 4 - Location](/assets/img/powerBI_4_location.png)


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<a name="tableau"></a>
 
Analysis of COVID dataset from Our World In Data: used a series of Tableau visualisations to address the question "Where is the coronavirus situation the worst?"  Animation of global spread was created, looking at population adjusted cases by month.  Density of cases was compared with death rates across the same countries.  CFR (Case Fatality Ratio) was calculated to assess burden of disease from COVID by country. Countries with highest deaths (poor performers) per million vs countries with lowest CFR (good performers) were compared across a number of metrics including: testing and vaccination rates, population density, available hospital beds, lockdown severity, wealth, life expectancy, burden of chronic disease, age distribution. 

[COVID Data Journalism - Tableau Story (download .twbx)](https://bit.ly/COVID_dataJournalism_tableau)

![COVID Data Journalism](/assets/img/tableau_covid_dataJournalism.png)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Awards
**UNE Vice Chancellor's Scholar Award (_Jun 2023_):**
Graduating with GPA 6.7 or higher; honor roll.

**UNE Physiology Prize -3rd Year (_Jan 2022_):**
Highest aggregate grade in Year 3 physiology units: cardiorespiratory physiology, neurobiology, immunology, haematology, metabolism and nutrition.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Education
**Bachelor of Biomedical Science** | University of New England (_Jun 2023_) | GPA 6.96


**Master of Design Science (Digital Media)** | University of Sydney (_Nov 2005_)


**Bachelor of Arts** | University of Sydney (_2002_)


**Cert IV Training & Assessment** | Southern Cross Training (_2017_)



------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Professional Experience
**Data Analyst Student | Biostatistics @ General Assembly (_Nov 2023 - Feb 2024_)**
- Focused on advanced Excel, SQL, Power BI, Tableau, Python
- Full time intensive program: 600+ hours comprising coding, statistical analysis, online collaboration, applying a problem solving workflow to data analytiics.  Produced group and individual capstone projects using Python, Tableau, R

**Designer @ Bell Training Solutions (_2015-2023_)**
- Designed and developed graphics for training packages and client presentations
- Adobe photoshop, PowerPoint

**Teacher/ Curriculum Writer @ Academy of Interactive Technology (_2009-2010_)**
- Formerly AIT - Academy of Information Technology
- Curriculum writing: new Intro to 3D course in 3ds Max, which was a component of AIT’s successful application for higher education status.
- Course delivery: on-site teaching and marking.

**Lecturer, 3D Animation @ University of Technology, Sydney (_2009-2010_)**
- Workshop and tutorial preparation and teaching (Maya and Photoshop), marking, maintaining online materials, exhibition/ screening of student work.
- Update of syllabus and course content for the Master of Animation program.

**3D Environment Artist @ Team Bondi (_2008-2009_)**
- 3D environment artist for LA Noire.
- Terrain, architecture, props.  Bug fixing, navmesh and collision.
- Maya: 3D modelling and texture artist.

**Lecturer 3D, Compositing Game Design @ University of Sydney (_2008-2009_)**
- Lecture and tutorial development, marking, maintaining online and on-site resources.
- Maya, Unreal Engine, 2D compositing. 

**Lecturer 3D Animation @ University of Sydney (_2006-2009_)**
- Teaching 3D modeling and animation in Maya
